Rapid transit is the name for a type of railway which has trains that run very often and carry many passengers at one time. It is usually it is in a city or urban area and takes people into and out of it. Trains go between places very quickly because they do not mix with other traffic. Most rapid transit railways do not have level crossings, but the tracks go over and under other roads, or run in tunnels or over bridges, so they do not meet.

Many places call their rapid transit system a metro. Other words for rapid transit, which are different all around the world, are subway, underground, tube, elevated, or heavy rail. These words sometimes describe how the system is built, whether above the ground or below it. Some systems are completely below ground or completely above ground, while others may have both below-ground and above-ground sections.

A single rapid transit system can have many lines that go different places and many stations where people can get on and off trains, and sometimes change between other forms of public transport. These lines often have stations where people can change from one line to another to go in a different direction. These kinds of stations are called interchange stations, and many of the biggest rapid transit systems have several of these stations.

The Americas

The first subway in North America was in Boston. Building started in 1895 and the first section was opened in 1897. The tunnels for this subway are still used by the Green Line of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA), who has since built some other subways. In 1904, the New York City Subway opened, serving New York City. It quickly grew and soon became one of the largest in the world. It still has the most stations of any rapid transit system, with over 400 of them. Several more cities in the United States and Canada built their own subways, such as Philadelphia (operated by SEPTA); Los Angeles (operated by METRO); and Toronto, Canada (which people call the "subway").

Although most rapid transit systems are mostly built in underground tunnels, there are some lines which have been built above the street. These "elevated" lines are cheaper to build than subways since no tunneling is required. A well-known mostly elevated rapid transit system is the Chicago 'L' serving Chicago since 1892. The New York City Subway also has many elevated sections similar to Chicago. The Bay Area Rapid Transit system in the San Francisco Bay Area and the Washington Metro in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, two of the newer rapid transit systems built in the US, began running in 1972 and 1976, in that order. Although these last two systems have long sections of track without stations and run mostly above ground, in some places in the median strip of highways; all lines travel through subways in the inner city parts.

The first subway in South America opened in the Argentine capital of Buenos Aires in 1913 (the Buenos Aires Underground). The oldest trains on the Underground were used for almost one hundred years, and were not replaced with new cars until 2013. Other cities in Latin America with rapid transit include Sao Paulo, Brazil (Sao Paulo Metro); Santiago, Chile (Santiago Metro); and Mexico City Mexico (Mexico City Metro). Trains in Santiago and Mexico City are like Paris and Montreal as they are rubber-tired. Although there are not as many cities with rapid transit railways as there are in Europe or other places, many large cities operate bus rapid transit networks, which carry many people like railways and often have their own lane on roads, but use buses instead of trains. These systems are often designed to be converted into rail-based rapid transit in the future.
