Cheletropic reactions are a type of pericyclic reaction where one atom on one of the reagents gets two new bonds. A pericyclic reaction is one that involves a transition state with a cyclic array of atoms and an associated cyclic array of interacting orbitals. A reorganization of σ and π bonds occurs in this cyclic array.

Cheletropic reactions are a subclass of cycloadditions. What sets cheletropic reactions apart is that on one of the reagents, both new bonds are being made to the same atom. A few examples are shown to the right in Figure 1. In the first case, the single atom is the carbon atom in the carbonyl group. That carbon atom ends up in carbon monoxide. The end result is making two new bonds to one atom. The first two examples are known as "cheletropic extrusions" because a small stable molecule is given off in the reaction. The driving force for these reactions is often the entropic benefit of releasing a gas (e.g. CO or N2).

Theoretical analysis

Because of the geometry of the molecules involved in cheletropic reactions, they confirm a number of predictions made by theoretical chemists. Cheletropic reactions confirm the conservation of molecular orbital symmetry.

In the pericyclic transition state, a small molecule donates two electrons to the ring. Two possible geometries can explain the reaction. The small molecule can approach in either a linear or non-linear way. In the linear approach, the electrons in the orbital of the small molecule are pointed directly at the π system of the big molecule. In the non-linear approach, the orbital approaches at a slightly off angle. The π-systems ability to rotate as the small molecule approaches is crucial in forming new bonds. The direction of rotation will be different depending on how many π-electrons are in the system. A diagram of a two-electron fragment approaching a four-electron π-system using frontier molecular orbitals is shown below. The rotation will be disrotatory if the small molecule approaches linearly and conrotatory if the molecule approaches non-linearly. Disrotatory and conrotatory tell how the bonds in the π-system are rotating. Disrotatory means opposite directions while conrotatory means the same direction. This is also shown in the diagram below.

Using Huckel's Rule, one can tell if the π-system is aromatic or anti-aromatic. If aromatic, linear approaches use disrotatory motion while non-linear approaches use conrotatory motion. The opposite goes with an anti-aromatic system. Linear approaches will have conrotatory motion while non-linear approaches will have disrotatory motion.
